From The New York Times, I'm Natalie
[music] Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
About a year into Trump's global trade
war, China hasn't just survived. It's
emerged stronger [music] than ever on
the world stage. And that's because
after years [music] of careful planning,
China has essentially made itself
tariff-proof.
Today, [music] my colleague Keith
Bradshaw explains how despite Trump's
best efforts, China's robot-powered
super factories
>> [music]
>> are taking over the world.
>> It's Tuesday, March [music] 24th.
Keith, it's been about 1 year of tariffs
on China, 1 year of, I think it's fair
to say, economic war on China. A crazy
year, honestly, which was capped off by
a Supreme Court ruling saying many of
these tariffs were illegal.
And what we're here to do today is
figure out what did the last year amount
to?
And you are here because you've been
covering trade for approximately 1
billion years. Is that right?
>> [laughter]
>> Since 1991, yes. Thank you. Okay, close
to a billion. And so, what we want is
for you to help us understand what these
tariffs have wrought when it comes to
China.
These tariffs are changing China's trade
in important ways, but not nearly as
much as the Trump administration
expected. Yes, China's not shipping as
much to the United States as it was
before.
But China's also not buying as much from
the United States as it was before.
The overall trade surplus of China, how
much its exports exceed how much it's
buying from the rest of the world, is
still growing. It became even more
immense last year when it reached 1.2
trillion dollars. 1.2 trillion. Just put
that in context, how big of a deal is
that?
1.2 trillion is bigger than the
economies of most of the countries in
the world.
>> Mhm.
And what was particularly striking about
it was that the trade surplus for China
in manufactured goods, which create a
lot of jobs, a lot of high-skilled,
well-paid jobs, that trade surplus was
even bigger. China's truly become the
factory of the world, the dominant
producer of everything from basic
materials like steel and chemicals, all
the way through electric cars and solar
panels.
The upshot of what you're saying, Keith,
is that the most aggressive tariffs
against China in decades
didn't really stop China from dominating
in manufacturing.
Why? What explains that?
There are four reasons. One, China
ramped up its sales in a hurry to other
markets, not just in Asia, but in
Africa, Latin America, and in Europe.
Second, China ramped up sales of goods
that are indirectly reaching the United
States.
Like exporting the parts of a vacuum
cleaner or some other system that then
gets assembled in another country and
then shipped into the United States. So,
a lot of indirect shipments to the
United States through other countries.
Third, China has managed to weaken its
currency a lot.
That makes China's goods
much cheaper in foreign markets, and it
makes foreign goods, like American goods
or European goods, very expensive in
China.
But the last reason, and in some ways
the most important reason, why China is
producing such enormous
trade surpluses, is that it is years
ahead right now in advanced
manufacturing. Mhm. Pretty much anything
can be made less expensively in China
than anywhere else.
They're not just the least expensive
place to make clothing or furniture.
Now, they're the least expensive place
to make cars, batteries, all these other
technologies.
And a big part of that is because
they're making them in very advanced
factories with more robots than anyone
else in the world. Okay, just to spell
this out, you're saying because China's
factories are just so automated, the
country's able to produce a ton of
stuff, even advanced products, extremely
cheaply. So cheaply that China has
become almost immune to Trump's tariffs.
They're not completely immune, but they
are a lot more resistant than anyone
else expected. Okay.
So, I want to understand what exactly
does that automation inside China's
factories look like?
Let me tell you about a car factory I
visited some months ago in eastern
China.
The very start of the process is making
[music] the car body components,
which used to be made mostly out of
steel. This was making it out of
aluminum, which is lighter weight, works
better with an electric car.
It's much harder to do, but they were
doing it in a more advanced way than you
see practically anywhere else.
There are robotic sleds carrying bars of
aluminum to an automated elevator, up up
up up to the top of a machine the size
of a McMansion in the United States.
>> Woah. I mean, this piece of apparatus
was enormous.
And the elevator automatically dumps the
aluminum ingots in a furnace, and that
furnace turns them into molten aluminum
that is then poured into precisely the
shapes of the various car body
components that are needed. [music]
And then those car parts
are taken, still by human drivers with
forklifts, although that will be
automated at some point as well,
into a very large warehouse from which
they then feed the assembly line.
The assembly line is 820 robots. [music]
It's a so-called dark factory. Dark
factory because humans aren't involved,
and robots don't need light to function.
That's exactly right. You can turn off
the lights, they keep making whatever
they're making,
>> [music]
>> and they are assembling all these
components
into the skeleton of the car.
Now, some of that you find elsewhere in
other car factories elsewhere in the
world, but the integration of everything
is very impressive. It was also using
artificial intelligence. Cameras were
taking lots of pictures of the finished
car and comparing them in detail to a
database of other cars that were viewed
as very well put together and
identifying if there were any flaws that
needed to be corrected. So, AI is doing
quality control in this case. AI is
doing quality control. AI is involved in
tracking practically every step in the
process.
What you're seeing in China, more than
any other country, is the adaptation
[music]
of AI to manufacturing.
And how does that compare to what you
see in the rest of the world, to the
rest of the world's factories?
So, other countries are no longer as
automated. In fact, Germany, Japan, the
United States
now have factories that are less
automated, that have fewer robots than
China. China now has
a higher number of robots for every
10,000 manufacturing workers
than any of those three countries.
China also is installing more factory
robots each year now than the entire
rest of the world combined. How did
China get to the point where it is more
advanced at manufacturing than the US,
than Germany, than Japan? These are
countries that were all known at one
point for being manufacturing titans,
for specializing in this. How did China
get here?
The rise of advanced manufacturing in
China is a remarkable story. It's not
just
an economic story.
It's also an education story, it's a
culture story, it's a demographic story.
You have to go back to the
mid-2010s.
China had really already emerged as the
world's number one manufacturing power.
But that wasn't all they wanted to do.
They didn't want to just be
the manufacturing power that made the
most things. They wanted to make [music]
the best things, the most advanced
technology products. At the same time,
though, the supply of young Chinese
workers has peaked [music] and is
rapidly dropping thanks to stringent
family planning policies. China was
starting to realize that its so-called
one-child policy had produced an
unintended result. The policy
significantly reduced birth rates,
especially in rural areas, the source
from which the bulk of China's floating
labor population comes. China had been
restricting families from having more
than one child
for several decades by then, and the
policy had gone too far. [music]
The birth rate was collapsing. As
Americans struggle with pink slips,
Chinese factories are putting up red
signs seeking workers. Right now, there
are just too many factories looking for
laborers. This recruiter says, "The
pressure is on to fill spots." [music]
So much of a drop they began worrying,
are we going to have enough young people
coming into the workforce?
And so that put a lot of pressure on
China to find ways to get the same work
done, particularly at the factories,
[music]
without having nearly remotely as many
workers. With fewer young people are
available for work, there are concerns
the country may not be able to sustain
the fast economic growth that has
transformed China into the world's
second largest economy after the United
States.
In the United States, immigration has
offset a falling birth rate. But China
allows almost no immigration whatsoever.
>> [music]
>> In the US, it's over a million green
cards a year.
In China, it's several thousand 10-year
residency cards, [music] which isn't
even a a full green card. It's just 10
years.
In a vast country, China has fewer
foreigners per capita living in it than
even North Korea.
>> [music]
>> Essentially, what you're saying is
without immigration and with a rapidly
falling birth rate, China just doesn't
have enough bodies to sustain itself as
the world's factory, especially as their
ambitions are growing. China doesn't
have enough workers unless it does an
extraordinary amount of automation.
Because this is not just about a
declining number of workers. This is
also about fewer and fewer workers who
are willing to work on an assembly line.
And why? Why don't people want these
jobs? People don't want these jobs
because they are much, much
better educated than the previous
generation.
With the one-child policy, couples put
everything they had into making sure
that child has the best possible
education.
Families like one that I know in
Northwestern China, the father is an
illiterate coal miner working for almost
nothing in illegal coal mines. The
mother, also illiterate,
works as a checkout clerk in a corner
store.
But they put everything into training
their daughter. And when I first started
going every 2 years to meet that family
in 2006, I noticed in seventh grade, she
was already doing algebra that was ahead
of the algebra in many American schools.
And here she was in a tiny village going
to a school for the children of the
illiterate, and she did go off to
college.
And so the result is a nation of not
just high school graduates, but now more
than half the young people are college
graduates as well.
And the last thing they want to do is a
wrote job on a factory floor
doing the same assembly day after day.
There's also Confucian tradition Hmm.
that working with your hands is somehow
inferior to other forms of work such as
writing.
That tradition has made many families
reluctant to see their only child take a
factory job. And often their only child
shares that reluctance. So while the
manufacturing sector is still growing,
is still producing a vast cornucopia of
goods, there is a mismatch
between these vast, numerous factories
and a labor force of only children who
went to college and are often wary of
factory work.
The result, as the 2010s unfolded, was a
real anxiety [clears throat]
among business leaders and government
leaders.
>> [music]
>> Where were the factory workers of
tomorrow going to come from?
And their response [music]
was to create a very ambitious program
to automate the nation's factories.
We'll be right back.
Okay, Keith. So what exactly does China
do? How did China become, I think it's
fair to say, the automation capital of
the world?
China had a plan for this. China's big
on plans. It's a country that still does
five-year plans. And what happened in
2015 was they did a 10-year plan for
good measure. And that was called Made
in China 2025.
To make China globally competitive in 10
major sectors. Whether it was
semiconductors, electric cars, advanced
materials like rare earth magnets.
Perhaps most important, China decided it
really wanted to move ahead in robotics.
And why was there such an emphasis on
robotics? Just explain that to me. China
doesn't want only to be the country that
makes advanced products. China also
wants to be the country that makes all
the equipment to produce advanced
products.
>> Hmm. And the equipment, whether it's for
semiconductors, whether it's for
electric cars, whether it's for solar
panels,
the equipment for all of these
categories involves a lot of automation.
And so China put the investments into
doing the robotics, the factory
automation needed to manufacture those
advanced products. So they're not just
investing in building EVs or building
planes or semiconductors.
They're investing in building factories
and the equipment and the technology
that you need to build all these other
things. Like building advanced factories
was an end in and of itself. And
robotics, you're saying, was essential
to that. That's exactly right. They are
really trying to make sure that the
whole supply chain of advanced
manufacturing happens in China. It's not
enough for them to take delivery of the
latest factory equipment from the West.
Now they want to be making all of the
latest factory equipment themselves and
all of the latest automation themselves.
And so how did China execute this Made
in China plan? They threw money at these
projects in incredible sums.
Hundreds of billions of dollars in
government investment funds going into
many different tech startups in all
kinds of areas. Well, China has been on
a worldwide buying spree, as we all
know, announcing an unprecedented $207
billion worth of mergers and
acquisitions this year. If you want to
take a look at the China A crucial step
in China's advances in the latest
manufacturing came at the start of 2017.
Some breaking news coming through on the
Chinese attempts to buy KUKA. KUKA says
the US has given a green light to the
takeover by Midea. This is, of course,
the Chinese company that wants to buy
the robotics firm. A Chinese company was
allowed by the United States and Germany
to buy KUKA, a German company that in
many ways led the world in making
factory robots. People didn't realize at
the time how important this was. If you
want an example of a company that's
moving up the food chain here in China
from low-value manufacturing to high-end
manufacturing, innovation, robotics,
then really Midea is the one to watch.
It bought KUKA, the German robot maker,
about a year ago. I've been going to car
factories all over the world for 30
years. KUKA robots are everywhere in
those factories.
And since the start of 2017, all of a
sudden, that know-how,
that manufacturing capability,
shifted to China.
Today, many, many, many KUKA robots are
made in Shanghai. And the knowledge
associated with that, not just of how to
build robots, but everything the robots
build, like cars, has moved to Shanghai
and to the rest of China as well.
They essentially just imported that
expertise wholesale. They bought the
company and imported and transferred the
expertise to China. Exactly right.
>> [music]
>> And this helped China become very strong
in robotics.
What's remarkable is that China has
become so good at making factory
automation and makes it in such enormous
quantities that nowadays, you don't just
find advanced robots in car factories.
You find them even in small back alley
operations. So last year, for example, I
was in a gritty industrial neighborhood
of small storefront workshops
in Guangzhou in southern China. And I
went to a small operation that was just
welding together sheets of steel to make
backyard barbecues for sale to local
canteens in developing countries. So
something pretty basic. Very basic. 10
workers, no air conditioning, open to
the street even though the temperature
was approaching 100°.
Several guys with welding torches, big
stacks of steel sheets around. It was
very basic. And yet the owner said, "I'm
about to get a robot."
>> Hmm. And I said, "How does that work
out? How is How does that make sense for
you?" And he said, "Well, a couple years
ago, if I wanted to buy a robot to
automate part of my business here, it
would have cost me $140,000.
Now, it costs me a quarter of that, and
all that needs to happen is one of my
workers goes the motions for welding
together these sheets of steel to make
the sides of the oven. A camera on the
Chinese supplied system watches exactly
how the worker welds the steel, and it
then automatically programs the robot to
do exactly the same welds. Amazing.
Incredible. Even in China, with wages
much lower than in the United States,
it's now cost-effective, he said, to
replace a worker, or actually several
workers, with a robot. Because he said,
"Look, this robot is can do this 24
hours a day.
The workers are 8 hours a day, and it's
hard to find workers these days who want
to work when it's 95°
welding, which is hot work, in a store
for workshop with no air conditioning."
How do workers feel about this, Keith?
Obviously, in the United States, the
idea of automating all these factory
jobs has produced a ton of anxiety, and
I can imagine in China, it also might
not feel great to see a robot take over.
But, at the same time, you've said
there's a reluctance among the Chinese
to take these factory jobs. So, how's it
playing?
There is far less hostility to
automation than in any other country I
know about. Because right now, there are
more factory jobs than there are factory
workers.
The total output of these factories is
just going up and up and up with
exports. So, what you're seeing with
automation is often the same number of
workers making more and more and more.
And where are all these goods going?
They're going into exports. They're
going to other countries. So, the
workers who are losing their jobs
because of China's rise in automation
are not in China. They're often in other
countries that have not invested as much
in the latest automation and in the
latest quality control and in the latest
inventions.
Germany, for example, is losing close to
10,000 factory jobs a month right now,
and a big, big part of that is the rapid
rise of China's exports taking away
business from Germany's factories. And
that's an issue in Germany, but that's
not an issue for factory workers in
China. Right. It makes sense that if
you're not actually seeing the main
downside of automation, you might not be
as opposed to it.
Keith, where does the US stand in terms
of catching up? And is it fair to assume
that in order to genuinely compete with
China, we'd have to make factories more
like China's, heavily automated as much
as possible?
The US is going to have trouble being
competitive if it doesn't start
investing very heavily as well in
factory automation. There has been some
replacement of workers through
automation in the car industry in the
United States as well.
But, the car industry in the United
States is an interesting example of how
dependent the rest of the world is
becoming on China. How so?
Car factories in the United States now
buy a lot of their automation from
China. There is a product that is more
than 2/3 the length of a football field
that stamps steel sheets into the shapes
for various car body components. So,
those huge, highly automated pieces of
equipment that are installed in Chinese
factories are also being shipped by
China in some cases to American
factories because the United States
doesn't make anything that really is
competitive in that category. It's
interesting. You're basically saying
either way, China wins. If we want to
compete, we have to buy their equipment
to do that. That's increasingly true.
There is good Swedish, German, Japanese,
and Korean equipment, but a lot of the
least expensive equipment these days is
made in China. So, China now has a broad
lead in a wide range of automation
technologies, and is determined to hold
on to that lead, and is continuing to
invest in preserving that lead. I want
to ask about what all this says about
the purpose of competing with China on
manufacturing. Because what you've said
makes me wonder if we actually do
succeed in bringing manufacturing back
to the US, will that mean that we
actually get the kind of jobs that
people seem to want? In China, you've
said many people don't want factory jobs
anymore, but in the US, a lot of people
do. It was a big reason people voted for
Trump because they thought he was going
to bring those high-quality jobs back.
But, what you've described is a future
where any factory job that comes here is
probably going to look a lot different,
right?
Today's factories are much more pleasant
to work in than they were even 10 years
ago, and certainly much more pleasant
than 20 or 30 years ago. The ergonomics
are better, the noise is less, the air
quality is much better.
All of this automation does mean that
factory jobs are very attractive jobs if
you can get them now. And the question
is going to be whether the US can catch
up enough to be competitive. And it's a
question not just for the United States,
but also for Europe, for Japan, for
South Korea, and for emerging
industrialized economies like Brazil,
India, Mexico, and Indonesia. It's a big
question for the whole rest of the
world, what kind of factory jobs will
they be able to offer
their people. Well, and how many, right?
And how many, yes. But, if you have a
lot of production, if you have a large
market, automation will gradually erode
the total number of jobs, but you end up
with different kinds of jobs. You end up
with jobs in designing the robots that
make things instead of doing a rote task
again and again. You end up with jobs
creating new products. China has that
industrial chain, and the question is
whether the US, which to some extent had
that chain 30 or 40 years ago, can
manage to revive it.
I'm wondering, Keith, just to turn back
to Trump's tariffs on China, if so far,
they haven't stopped the country from
exporting so much stuff across the
world,
why is the Trump administration still
trying to reinstate tariffs against
China? We've heard of these new
investigations into unfair trade
practices that supposedly will put the
US on the path to slapping new tariffs
on China. Why do that if it doesn't
actually seem that tariffs stood a
chance?
It's very hard for American
manufacturers to compete at all if they
face a constant flood of very low-priced
Chinese goods. So, the goal of having
tariffs is to provide some shelter from
this vast influx of Chinese goods
while American manufacturing begins to
find its feet again.
But, that is a very difficult task.
>> [music]
>> What we've learned from Trump's year of
steep tariffs on imports is that tariffs
by themselves have not yet produced a
big, broad revitalization of the
American manufacturing sector. But, that
doesn't mean that tariffs are a bad
idea.
What it means is that [snorts]
many economists now say tariffs should
only be part of a broader range of
measures, strengthening the training of
American workers,
helping companies invest in the latest
technologies, working with other
countries to prevent there being used as
simply pass-throughs for inexpensive
Chinese goods,
taking a broader look at what is needed
to revitalize American manufacturing
at a time when the United States does
have very real national security
concerns
given China's very close relationships
with Russia, with Iran, with North
Korea,
with many governments that the United
States is worried about.
>> [music]
>> Well, Keith,
thanks so much for coming back on the
show. Thank you so much. Always good to
talk to you, Natalie.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
>> [music]
>> On Monday, President Trump said he was
postponing strikes on Iran's power
plants until at least Friday because the
US and Iran were engaging in, ,
"very good and productive [music]
conversations."
But, Iran denied any direct talks with
the US, and cast the claim as a ploy by
Trump to soothe markets and buy time
[music] for more military action.
Whatever the truth, the war continued to
rage on multiple fronts. [music]
The US and Israel said they'd carried
out new waves of strikes on Iran, and
Israel [music] continued its offensive
in Lebanon.
And the Senate voted Monday to confirm
Senator Mark Wayne Mullen, a Trump ally,
to run the Department of Homeland
Security.
He'll be replacing [music] Kirstjen
Nielsen.
Two Democrats joined Republicans to
confirm Mullen, who [music] stressed his
willingness to work with both parties.
Mullen has taken the reins of DHS,
[music] which oversees immigration
enforcement, at a critical moment.
Thousands of employees [music]
are working without pay during a partial
government shutdown that began more than
a month ago [music] after Democrats held
up funding for the agency over their
demands to rein [music] in immigration
officers.
The shutdown has led to long security
lines and scenes of chaos at airports
across the country.
Finally, the Federal Aviation
Administration is investigating whether
an air traffic controller was distracted
by a separate [music] incident at the
time of a deadly crash at LaGuardia
Airport on Sunday [music] night.
The collision between an Air Canada jet
and a fire [music] truck killed two
pilots, injured dozens of people, and
temporarily shut down LaGuardia,
>> [music]
>> one of the busiest airports in the
nation.
Today's episode [music] was produced by
Ricky Navetsky, Stella Tan, and Claire
Tennesketer. It was edited by Lisa Chow
[music] and contains music by Diane
Wong, Marion Lozano, and Elisabeth
[music] Ee Chook. Our theme music is by
Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Chris
Wood.
>> [music]
>> That's it for The Daily. [music] I'm
Natalie Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.